Story Recapped here. Today I'm going to
explain a science fiction action film
called The Darkest Hour. Spoilers
ahead! Watch out and take care.
American software designers, Ben and Sean,
are on a plane that's about to land in Moscow,
Russia. Sean gets reprimanded by a flight
attendant for using his mobile phone, whose
signals can interfere with the plane's navigation
system. Sean dares the attendant if she genuinely
believes in this, pointing out how mobile phones
should be banned from airplanes if it were true.
Just as the flight attendant gives up on getting
him to stop, the plane experiences turbulence, and
the lights go out. The electrical storm outside
causes the plane to short circuit. The passengers,
including Ben and Sean, brace themselves for the
worst, but the plane regains power moments later.
At the airport, an announcement states that all
flights are cancelled due to the electrical storm.
Sean wears an old suit as they head to
their meeting, one that has holes on it.
He disguises the hole using
a sharpie that Ben lends him.
On their way to their business meeting, Ben
practices his speech to sell their software,
The Globe Trot -- a social networking platform
that directs travellers to the hottest parties and
bars near them. However, Sean is more interested
in getting drunk and partying in Moscow.
The two are excited, knowing that the software
they worked so hard on will earn them millions.
As soon as they arrive at the conference
room, their million-dollar deal turns to dust.
Their Swedish business partner, Skyler,
has created a knock-off application of
their software and is already making the deal.
Unlike Skyler, Ben and Sean do not speak Russian,
so they have trouble arguing their case in
front of their potential clients. Without
signing an NDA with Skyler, Ben and Sean are
at a loss on how they can claim their software.
In front of St. Basil's
Cathedral, American tourists,
Natalie and Anne, take photos while looking
for a club they found on Ben and Sean's blog.
Down on their luck, Ben and
Sean head to the same club.
Ben is worried about their situation, but Sean
stays optimistic that they can turn things around.
Their night gets worse when they
see Skyler. Skyler confidently
tells them that what he did is merely a
business move that the two need to learn.
Their night improves when Ben spots Natalie,
recognizing her from their The Glob Trot app.
They introduce themselves to Natalie and
Anne. Natalie gets a message from her mother,
who disapproves of her leaving for Moscow. Just
as they are having fun, the power goes out in
the whole club. Everyone leaves the club to see
strange wispy lights descending from the sky.
The crowd is in awe of the celestial event. One
of the lights lands in the middle
of the crowd before disappearing.
A police officer steps into the area, and
the light appears again, going in and out.
Panic ensues when the officer touches the
light and instantly disintegrates. More
of the balls of alien light start
hunting down and killing people.
A group of people hides back into the club, with
Sean and another man barricading the door. But an
alien releases a pulse of energy that destroys
the door and windows, allowing it to enter.
The almost invisible alien
nears a group of partygoers.
The bartender lights a molotov cocktail
and throws it towards the ball of light.
The attack is successful in
stopping it on its tracks.
Skyler and his date attempt to escape to
an alleyway at the back of the building
but stops when one of the aliens blocks
their way. Skyler quickly closes the door,
leaving his date behind, who is attacked
and gets disintegrated in front of him.
Back at the bar, the burning alien strikes back at
the people, hitting the bartender and destroying
the wall behind them. Sean finds the storeroom
door and directs Natalie to it. He shouts for Ben
and Anne to get in and even carries the wounded
bartender into the storeroom with them. They hide,
listening to the chaos happening outside. Someone
bangs on the door, and they let Skyler in. The
lights flicker wildly until the power goes out.
The group is confused, horrified and devastated.
Days later, the group is running out of
food in the storeroom. The bartender that
Sean tried to save is dead. Natalie tries to
get a signal on her phone again but fails.
With the place going quiet for hours, the group
decide to go out and head to the American Embassy.
Once outside of the storeroom,
they see that the club is empty.
They gather supplies from the bar and head
out to see the torn city filled with ash
and abandoned cars—no other signs of life in
sight. The group hurries across the streets,
staying together and keeping
an eye out for signs of danger.
Finally, they find a Russian
woman barricading her window,
who helps them with the directions
but warns them that they will die.
The group finds a bridge, but it's been
destroyed, forcing them to find another way.
They reach the Red Square, where Ben and Sean
search for supplies in an abandoned police car.
A dog passes by them, barking at something unseen.
Sean watches as the dog disintegrates,
having found one of the invisible entities.
He warns the others to hide inside the building
while he and Ben hide behind the police car.
The alien goes to the car. As it gets nearer,
the lights and siren turn on, reacting to
the alien's electric pulses. Sean tells Ben to
hide under the car until the alien passes them.
Sean's plan is successful. The alien
doesn't see them, and it goes away.
The two goes inside the shopping
mall and reunites with the others.
Frazzled after seeing the dog die, Skyler
jumps at a gust of wind from a distance.
Sean yells for him to keep his cool
and avoid scaring the others even more.
Inside the mall, they find an airplane has crashed
into the building. This sends Skyler over the
edge, believing that everyone is dead. The aliens
are invisible, so they have no way to fight them.
However, Sean points out that the
aliens disrupt electrical items,
much like how the police car
lights and streetlamps react to it.
They deduce that going out at night is safer,
as they would see the warning signs of the
entities getting close better. The group
takes shelter inside one of the stores.
When Anne brings up what Skyler did to
his date in the club, he feels remorse,
believing he was brave until that moment when he
needed to react. Those seconds when he closed the
door on his date, causing her to get caught
by one of the aliens, has haunted him since.
The group decides to find a change of clothes,
something more appropriate for their journey.
While Sean and Natalie find clothes, Natalie
gasps and runs away. The light bulbs across
the store have begun to light up -- an
alien is near. As the entity passes by,
Sean remains still behind the windows. The
entity doesn't see him, giving him an idea.
The entity heads for Natalie, and Sean pulls
her back to hide behind panes of glass.
The entity ignores them; this confirms
to Sean that the entities see them
through their electrical pulse, and
insulators, such as glass, block them.
The group continue their journey to the American
Embassy but finds it abandoned as well. Inside,
Skyler picks up a gun for protection. Debris falls
from the upper floors, causing everyone to panic.
Skyler begins blindly shooting until Ben shouts
for him to stop. Sean suggests heading to the
top of the building to get a better view of
the city, but Skyler refuses to go with them.
Natalie finds a logbook detailing how other cities
experienced the same attacks. The logbook also
suggests there are survivors in other cities.
Ben and Sean find a radio and listens to an
emergency message in Russian, but none of them
understands what it means. Natalie takes her
phone near the radio, thinking that it will help
her get a signal, but this predictably fails.
Opening a window, they watch as the aliens destroy
parts of the city. The sound of gunfire alerts
them. Ben and Sean see Skyler moving away from
the building. They head out to get Skyler back,
hoping that he'll translate the Russian
message on the radio. The girls stay,
with Natalie watching them from the window. She
sees the cars light up ahead of where Skyler,
Ben, and Sean are heading. She tries to warn
them, but they're too far for them to hear.
Ben and Sean catch up to Skyler, who claims
to have seen something worth investigating in
the distance. Skyler gets cornered and sees
another alien closing in on Ben and Sean.
Gathering up courage, he tells them to
run and starts shooting at the entity,
knowing that it will divert its attention to him.
The two aliens attack Skyler, letting the other
two escape. Skyler's legs get shredded before
the second alien finishes the job, killing him.
Back in the embassy, Sean spots a light from
an apartment building with a silhouette of
a person moving. This must be what Skyler saw
earlier. The others disagree about going out,
but Sean insists that whoever
is inside that building knows
how to survive the aliens and
translate the radio message.
With the sun coming up, the group hurries to
the apartment building. There, they meet a young
woman named Vika and an electrical engineer named
Sergei. Sergei turned his entire apartment into a
giant Faraday cage to block out the electrical
pulses, hiding them completely from the aliens.
Vika translates the radio broadcast. It's from the
Russian navy, announcing a nuclear submarine in
the Moscow river bound to leave the following day.
The group plans to head to the river by nightfall.
While Vika, Natalie, and Anne leave
Sergei's apartment to gather supplies,
Sergei shows the two men his homemade
microwave gun. The high-density microwave
would break the alien's energy field that, in
theory, will allow them to kill the aliens.
The girls see an alien heading
to the building and run.
Vika tells them to follow her, but Anne
insists on heading back to Sergei's apartment.
Natalie wants to trust Vika but follows Anne
instead. The two get inside Sergei's apartment
but fails to lock the door, letting the alien
inside. Sergei shoots it with his microwave gun
and celebrates when it damages the alien's shield.
But the alien recuperates and kills Sergei.
Sean and Ben head to the fire escape.
Natalie breaks open a window to follow them,
but Anne freezes in fear. Natalie sets
the apartment on fire to stop the alien,
and Anne finally runs to her but is caught and
killed by the alien. Natalie is shocked at her
friend's death. She's frozen in place until Sean
grabs her and helps her down the fire escape.
Natalie, Sean, and Ben reunites with
Vika and meets up with armored Russian
police officers led by Matvei. The police
successfully kill an alien using firearms.
Sean collects a fragment of the dead alien
before they head to the police's base.
Sean tells them about the submarine in the river.
Matvei insists that it's impossible to get to the
river since the aliens overrun the shortest route
while the other way will take them a few days.
Matvei's group are adamant about
staying to fight for their home,
but Natalie points out that it's not their
home, so they have to try to get back to
America. Vika decides to join Sean's
group, and Matvei offers to help them.
As they pass through a subway, an alien blocks
their way. The others head to the tracks,
but Vika is trapped behind a pillar. Ben goes to
save her, helping her climb down to the tracks.
But before he escapes with Vika, the
alien catches his leg and pulls him.
Sean attempts to rush to his aid while
Ben tries to get ahold of something.
But it's too late. Sean watches as his
best friend gets shredded by the alien.
Sean is frozen in despair. Natalie grabs him,
pushing him to move on before
the alien finds the rest of them.
Outside the subway, they find a patrol boat. The
group ride on the boat as it heads downstream to
wait for the submarine. Natalie finds a flare
gun in the boat and sees that Vika is troubled.
Vika feels guilty over Ben's death, and
Natalie assures her that it wasn't her fault.
Sean, on the other hand, quietly
sits on a corner by himself.
Natalie comforts Sean as he reminisces
about Ben and their friendship.
Not having a chance to say goodbye to Ben, Sean
suggests saying goodbye to Natalie, just in case.
The boat crashes, and they find light
columns coming from destroyed buildings.
Materials from the buildings fly
upward. Seeing this, Matvei theorizes
that the aliens are mining their world for
conductive minerals like nickel and copper.
Vika spots the submarine, but a building
collapses onto their boat, causing it to capsize.
Sean, Vika, and the police reach the
submarine, but Natalie is missing.
They spot a flare from afar, and Sean insists for
the submarine crew to wait while he rescues her.
The group plots out how to rescue Natalie,
building another microwave gun like Sergei's,
this time with stronger batteries. At the railway,
Sean finds Natalie's bag and calls for her,
but there's no answer. Sean's microwave gun
malfunctions just as an alien gets closer.
Sean is finally able to shoot the alien with the
microwave gun, seeing what the alien looks like
beyond its force field. The commotion alerts
Natalie whose hiding in one of the busses.
A group of aliens arrive, and Sean
gets an idea to use water to increase
the charge of the microwave gun. He
spreads water from a nearby truck to
the ground. Matvei and his team wait for
the aliens while Sean retrieves Natalie.
Sean searches for the bus where Natalie
is, seeing a bus' windshield wipers move.
An alien is around, so he
has to be quick and quiet.
Matvei's team waits for the aliens to
get closer. Vika hides on the sidelines,
throwing Molotov cocktails at the aliens to help.
As soon as the three aliens reach the water,
Matvei shoots the microwave
gun at the middle one and,
as Sean theorized, the water conducts the
energy, spreading it to the other two aliens.
The aliens' shield breaks, and the team
shoots at them until they all explode.
Natalie and Sean reunite, but another
alien traps Natalie and Sean on the bus.
It emits electricity, causing the bus to move.
Sean struggles with his microwave gun, and Natalie
nearly gets killed by the alien. He fires the
gun at the alien, allowing Natalie to escape.
She goes to the driver's seat to stop
the bus, but the brakes aren't working.
She takes the wheel and struggles
to keep the bus from crashing.
After firing a few times, the
microwave gun's battery runs out.
Sean searches his bag to find another weapon and
finds the alien fragment he retrieved earlier.
He hurls it at the alien, destroying it.
The bus finally slows down,
and the two reunites with the others.
They all head back to the submarine.
Sean offers Matvei and his team to join them in
the submarine, but they refuse. Now that they know
how to fight the aliens, they want to defend their
home and urges Sean to teach others how to fight.
Natalie finally gets a signal on her phone
and receives a message from her mother,
saying that she is alive and with
other survivors. This comforts Natalie.
Sean, Natalie, and Vika ride
the submarine out of Moscow.
Days later, Sean and Natalie receive information
that other cities have begun fighting back, with
Paris destroying an alien mining tower. The humans
now have a fighting chance against the invaders.